Enhancement: Blender user docs: WIP on blender/updated-docs-more-indepth (#193)
ynput/ayon-documentation: website/docs/addon_blender_artist.md

## Working with AYON in Blender

AYON streamlines collaborative projects, simplifying tasks like naming conventions, configurations, and file navigation. It employs a "data-driven" approach, meaning the data within a scene dictates the publishing process. To clarify, let's explore some examples.

## Setting scene data

Blender settings concerning **frame rate**, **resolution** and **frame range** are fully **handled by AYON**.
If set correctly on the AYON server or in Ftrack, Blender will automatically set the values for you.

:::tip

> If for some reason those aren't set correctly, force resolution and frame range/fps any time using **Set Frame Range** and **Set Resolution** actions sitting in the AYON menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can force a specific resolution and frame range/fps at any time using **Set Frame Range** and **Set Resolution** actions sitting in the AYON menu.
```
(picky, but I feel like the "if for some reason..." bit might sounds like we do not fully trust our implementation here)

:::

> ## Saving your workfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dealing with workfiles (scene save/scene open)
```

![Model example](assets/blender-model_example.jpg)

### Creating Publish Instance

Once your model geometry been ready, select it (select multiple objects if needed) and navigate to

`AYON` > `Create...`

**Publisher** window will be introduced to you...

![Model create instance](assets/blender-model_create_instance.png)

Choose `Model` Publish type and keep the `Variant` and `Use Selection` as is.
:::tip
See [Variant](artist_concepts.md#variant) and [Product](artist_concepts.md#product)
for more detail on what they are and how they are used in AYON.
:::

`Use selection` toggle will use whatever you have selected in the Blender Outliner before triggering `Create...` 
This is usually what you want.

Now click on **Create >>** button.

You'll notice then after you've created new **Model** instance, there is a new
collection in the Outliner called after your product and variant, in our case it is
`/assets/props/suzanne_modelMain`. The objects selected when creating the `Model` publish instance got parented under a locator
representing the newly created product.

And that's it, you have your first model ready to be published as `model` product.

> Now save your scene if you didn't already!

Reviewer: Is it worth adding that publishing from an unsaved scene will likely fail ?

(**AYON → Load...**). Select your layout, right click on it and
select **Link Layout (blend)**. This will populate your scene with all those
models you've put into layout.

> :::note

Author: ```suggestion
:::note This Docs Section is Incomplete
```
